the Mystics came through an idea that it
would be interesting to follow a
particular group of animals which
scientists watching them a thought was
going to have some kind of revolution
maybe Lions taking over a different
pride maybe chimpanzees having a
competition for leadership and they then
produced it made a very bold statement
we will quote a crew of film crews and
we will film exactly what happened and
we don't know what it'll be a triumph we
don't know whether it'll be a tragedy
but we'll show you the truth I only saw
it when the film's will find the edited
and came back and they didn't tell me
what was going to happen and I I was on
the edge of my seat too because in a
most remarkable way you identify with
some of these characters there's an
age-old chimpanzee which we used the
names which the scientists themselves
use who are watching it and they called
this chimpanzee a bit my message my
embarrassment they call it David so it
had to be called David anyway he was
this brother alarming alpha male who
threw his weight right a bit but was
obviously coming to the end of his of
his rule and I didn't know what was
going to happen they hadn't told me and
I watched the finish film with my eyes
wide open really because it was an
amazing and very involving drama and
that's the the benefit of following
these animals in this kind of way that
you become very very involved
the emperor penguin program is slightly
different from all the rest because it's
not about one particular emperor penguin
or family and indeed you couldn't tell
because all of them look exactly the
same the only way they can survive in
the on the in the Antarctic of the heart
of the Antarctic is if the males endure
the winter with their eggs sitting on
their feet throughout the hideous
they sit there in a huddle and the
blizzard comes in and I'll forbid the
chapel the men of the males in the front
just apparent they can't survive any
longer unless they blow this for a game
of marbles and they walk around and they
come round the back but this is filmed
in such detail and with such skill and
in such circumstances that well you may
think you've seen that preparedness but
until you see in this program we really
haven't
[Music]
moving together in synchrony is the key
to creating a powerful bond animals also
deserve a space on this planet we are
late comers and the animals were there
before us and maybe we should be taking
care of them making allowance for them
giving him space
[Music]
you